---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs

page_title: "k3s_server Resource - k3s"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Creates a k3s server resource. At least one of password, private_key, or private_key_file must be provided.
  When running in highly available mode, it is up to the consumers of this module to correctly implement the raft protocol and create an odd number of ha nodes. Due to how HA works, we do not offer a method to gracefully delete a controller node from the cluster before running k3s-uninstall.sh during deletion of this resource.
---

# k3s_server (Resource)

Creates a k3s server resource. At least one of `password`, `private_key`, or `private_key_file` must be provided.
When running in highly available mode, it is up to the consumers of this module to correctly implement the raft protocol and create an odd number of ha nodes. Due to how HA works, we do not offer a method to gracefully delete a controller node from the cluster before running `k3s-uninstall.sh` during deletion of this resource.


## Example Usage



### Single node

Example on running a simple single node k3s cluster.


```terraform
variable "host" {
  type = string
}

variable "user" {
  type = string
}

variable "private_key" {
  type      = string
  sensitive = true
}

variable "config" {
  type    = string
  default = null
}

resource "k3s_server" "main" {
  auth = {
    host        = var.host
    user        = var.user
    private_key = var.private_key
  }
  config = var.config
}
```


### High availability nodes

Example on running a k3s in HA mode with embedded etcd.


```terraform
variable "hosts" {
  type    = list(string)
  default = []

  validation {
    condition     = length(var.hosts) > 1 && length(var.hosts) % 2 != 0
    error_message = "Ensure more than 3 and odd nodes"
  }
}

variable "user" {
  type = string
}

variable "private_key" {
  type      = string
  sensitive = true
}

variable "config" {
  type    = string
  default = null
}

resource "k3s_server" "init" {
  auth = {
    host        = var.hosts[0]
    user        = var.user
    private_key = var.private_key
  }
  config = var.config
  highly_available = {
    cluster_init = true
  }
}

resource "k3s_server" "join" {
  count = length(var.hosts) - 1

  auth = {
    host        = var.hosts[count.index + 1]
    user        = var.user
    private_key = var.private_key
  }
  config = var.config
  highly_available = {
    token  = k3s_server.init.token
    server = k3s_server.init.server
  }
}
```


### Launch With OIDC Support

Many possibilities

- You can authenticate to the cluster with Keycloak like [this](https://geek-cookbook.funkypenguin.co.nz/kubernetes/oidc-authentication/k3s-keycloak/).

- Employ IRSA in your cluster with [eks-pod-identity](https://github.com/aws/amazon-eks-pod-identity-webhook)


```terraform
variable "host" {
  type = string
}

variable "user" {
  type = string
}

variable "private_key" {
  type      = string
  sensitive = true
}

variable "config" {
  type    = string
  default = null
}

variable "oidc_config" {
  type = object({
    audience    = string
    pkcs8       = string
    signing_key = string
    issuer      = string
  })
  sensitive = true
}

resource "k3s_server" "init" {
  auth = {
    host        = var.host
    user        = var.user
    private_key = var.private_key
  }
  config = var.config
  oidc   = var.oidc_config
}

output "jwks" {
  value     = k3s_server.init.oidc.jwks_keys
  sensitive = true
}
```


### Bootstrap Token

Use `bootstrap_token` for a user-provided token that should be passed to K3s only while bootstrapping a new server. The observed server token remains available from the read-only `token` attribute for joining additional servers or agents.

```terraform
resource "k3s_token" "bootstrap" {}

resource "k3s_server" "init" {
  auth = {
    user        = "root"
    host        = "server.example.com"
    private_key = var.private_key
  }

  bootstrap_token = k3s_token.bootstrap.token
}
```

## Import

`k3s_server` can import an already-installed K3s server by using an SSH URL as the import ID. Import connects to the node, verifies that `k3s.service` exists, and reads the server token and kubeconfig into Terraform state.

Supported import ID formats:

```shell
terraform import k3s_server.main 'ssh://root@example.com?private_key_file=/home/me/.ssh/id_rsa'
terraform import k3s_server.main 'ssh://root@example.com:2222?password=s3cr3t&host_key_file=/home/me/.ssh/known_host.pub'
terraform import k3s_server.main 'ssh://root:s3cr3t@example.com:2222'
```

Supported query parameters:

- `password` - SSH password. This can also be supplied as URL user info, for example `ssh://root:s3cr3t@example.com`.
- `private_key` - Inline PEM private key. URL-encode newline and special characters.
- `private_key_file` - Path to a local private key file. This is usually the least awkward import option.
- `host_key` - Inline SSH host public key.
- `host_key_file` - Path to an SSH host public key.
- `bin_dir` - Directory containing `k3s-uninstall.sh`. Defaults to `/usr/local/bin`.

The import ID must include the SSH user and host, and may include the SSH port. Imported credentials are stored in Terraform state as part of `auth`, so treat import IDs with the same care as normal Terraform configuration and be mindful of shell history.

Install inputs that are not reliably discoverable from the node, such as `config`, `registry`, `env`, `highly_available`, `oidc`, and `version`, are imported as null or default values. Add them to configuration before planning future changes if Terraform should continue managing those settings.

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `auth` (Attributes) SSH authentication config. At least one of password, private_key, or private_key_file must be provided. 
		If multiple credential types are provided, each is added to the SSH auth methods.
		For host key verification, host_key or host_key_file can be passed in, otherwise host key verification is ignored. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--auth))

### Optional

- `bin_dir` (String) Value of a path used to put the k3s binary
- `bootstrap_token` (String, Sensitive) Short server token used only when bootstrapping a new server. Changing this value requires replacing the server.
- `config` (String) K3s server config
- `env` (Map of String, Sensitive) Extra environment variables to pass to the process
- `highly_available` (Attributes) Run server node in highly available mode (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--highly_available))
- `oidc` (Attributes) Configuration for integrating an OpenID Connect (OIDC) provider with the K3s cluster. This allows for authentication using OIDC tokens. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--oidc))
- `orphan` (Boolean) Remove the resource from Terraform state without running the k3s uninstall script during deletion.
- `registry` (String) K3s server registry
- `version` (String) The k3s version to use. Versions can be found at https://github.com/k3s-io/k3s/releases. If omitted, the observed running version is stored after install.

### Read-Only

- `active` (Boolean) The health of the server
- `cluster_auth` (Attributes) Cluster authentication details for connecting to the K3s cluster. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--cluster_auth))
- `id` (String) Id of the k3s server resource
- `kubeconfig` (String, Sensitive) KubeConfig for the cluster
- `server` (String) Server url  used for joining nodes to the cluster.
- `token` (String, Sensitive) Observed server token used for joining nodes to the cluster.

<a id="nestedatt--auth"></a>
### Nested Schema for `auth`

Required:

- `host` (String) Hostname or IP Address
- `user` (String) SSH User

Optional:

- `host_key` (String) Inline SSH host public key
- `host_key_file` (String) Path to SSH host public key
- `password` (String, Sensitive) SSH Password
- `port` (Number) SSH Port
- `private_key` (String, Sensitive) Inline private key in PEM format
- `private_key_file` (String, Sensitive) Path to pem file


<a id="nestedatt--highly_available"></a>
### Nested Schema for `highly_available`

Optional:

- `cluster_init` (Boolean) Node is the init node for the HA cluster
- `server` (String) URL of an existing server to join. Optional when using an external datastore such as Postgres.
- `token` (String, Sensitive) Server token used for joining nodes to the cluster


<a id="nestedatt--oidc"></a>
### Nested Schema for `oidc`

Optional:

- `audience` (String, Sensitive) The audience that this ID token is intended for. Required when OIDC is configured.
- `issuer` (String, Sensitive) The URL of the OIDC issuer. Required when OIDC is configured.
- `pkcs8` (String, Sensitive) The public signing key in PKCS8 format for verifying OIDC tokens. Required when OIDC is configured.
- `signing_key` (String, Sensitive) The private signing key for signing OIDC tokens. Required when OIDC is configured.

Read-Only:

- `jwks_keys` (String, Sensitive) The JSON Web Key Set (JWKS) generated by the K3s cluster after configuring the OIDC provider. This is a computed attribute.


<a id="nestedatt--cluster_auth"></a>
### Nested Schema for `cluster_auth`

Read-Only:

- `certificate_authority_data` (String, Sensitive) Base64 encoded certificate authority data for authenticating to the Kubernetes API server.
- `client_certificate_data` (String, Sensitive) Base64 encoded client certificate data for authenticating to the Kubernetes API server.
- `client_key_data` (String, Sensitive) Base64 encoded client key data for authenticating to the Kubernetes API server.
- `server` (String) The URL of the Kubernetes API server endpoint.
